31 egoist whats in it for me.
32 egotist i am an expert, i know everything.
33 altruist or altruism like you skip one and take the other. you have discovered the secret of true happiness. aditya baba
33 introvert leave me alone
33 extrovert kaha h log.
34 ambivert both introvert and extrovert
34 misanthrope hater of mankind
34 misogynist hater of women
34 misogamist hater of marriage
35 ascetic kind of sadhu sant, sanyasi,, duniya moh maya h.. spiritual perfection or bhagwan me samarpan hi kaam h jeewan ka,
38 obnoxious extremely unpleasant
38 root-ego I
38 egocentric you consider yourself the centre of the universe - intolerable. egomaniac is dangerous
38 egomaniac or egomaniacal- needs, desire and interest have become morbid obsession- dangerous then egocentric
39 root-alter other
39 alternative root is alter means other. other ways
39 alteration root is alter means other, to make into something other
39 altercation verbal dispute. root is alter. means you have other opinion then someone else and you fight.
39 alter-ego self I, chiiti is the alter ego of Dr. Vasa, root is alter and ego means other and I respectively.
43 root-intro inward as in introvert
43 root-extro outward as in extrovert
43 root-ambi both direction as in ambivert
43 Latin-dexter right hand. take as skilful as in dexterous
43 ambidextrous a person who can right from both hands, root is ambi and latin word is dextrous means both and right hand. take as both the hands are right hands.
43 dexterous skilful
43 Latin-sinister left hand or take as evil or dangerous because back those days when left handed person is considered to be evil and parents used to force their child to write from right hand only.
43 sinister threatining, evil, dangerous, latin word for sinister is left hand.
44 french-gauche left hand
44 gauche call someone gauche and you imply clumsiness(less social skilful) or tactless(having or showing a lack of skill and sensitivity in dealing with others or with difficult issues)
44 clumsiness less social skilful
44 tactless having or showing a lack of skill and sensitivity in dealing with others or with difficult issues
44 gaucherie embarrassing way of saying things of handling situations,
44 french-droit right hand or take as skilful
44 adroit skilful like dexterous. quick witted french word is droit means right hand or take as skilful
44 greek-anthropos mankind as in misanthrope
44 greek-gyne woman as in misogynist
44 greek-gamos marriage as in misogamist
44 anthropology study of mankind, greek-anthropos mankind 
44 philanthropist who cares or love mankind. greek-anthropos mankind 
44 root-philein love
44 monogamy one marriage greek-gamos marriage
44 bigamy two marriage greek-gamos marriage
44 polygamy many marriage greek-gamos marriage
45 polygyny if a man has many women as wives. greek-gyne woman 
46 polyandry if a woman has many men as husband greek-andros male
46 greek-andros male
64 gynaecologist doctor who treats female reproductive and sexual organs, greek-gyne woman
64 obstetrician specialist delivers babies and take care of mother.
64 latin-obstetrix midwife
64 greek-logos science
64 greek-paidos child
64 paediatrician specialist limits his practice to yougsters, greek-paidos child
64 pedagogy leading of childern, refer to the principles and methods of teaching, greek-paidos child 
64 root-agogos leading as in pedagogy, leading of childern from birth to adult. refer to the principles and methods of teaching,
65 latin-pedis/pons/podos foot as in pedestal, pedal
65 pedagouge a verse in pedagogy (leading of childern, refer to the principles and methods of teaching, greek-paidos child)
65 demagogue adj. demagoguery, a person who mislead people, root-demos people, root-agogos leading, once elected demagogues uses political power to further their own personal ambitions or fortunes.
65 root-demos people
65 greek-derma skin as in dermatologist
65 dermatologist doctor who has a speciality to treat skin related issues. greek-derma skin
65 hypodermic needle penetrates under the skin, greek-hypo under,greek-derma skin
65 greek-hypo under as in hypodermic (needle penetrates under the skin)
65 epidermis the outermost layer of the skin
65 taxidermy prepares stuff and mount the skins of animal. animal preserves in museum after filling stuff in the skin.greek-derma skin
65 pachyderm an animal with unusually thick skin, like elephant, hippopotamus, greek-derma skin
65 dermatitis a general name of any skin inflammation, irritation, or infection, greek-derma skin
66 greek-ophthalmos eye
66 ophthalmologist eye doctor greek-ophthalmos eye, root-logy science
66 ophthalmology study of eye, greek-ophthalmos eye, root-logy science
66 Latin-oculus eye
66 oculist eye doctor, Latin-oculus eye
66 ocular an adjective refer to eye, Latin-oculus eye
66 monocle a lens for one eye, monos means one, Latin-oculus eye
66 binoculars field glasses that increase the range of two(bi) eyes, Latin-oculus eye
66 inoculate he inoculated his kids agains smallpox. treat with a vaccine. when you are inoculated against a disease, an 'eye', a puncture or hole is mode in your skin through which a serum is injected.
66 optometrists they measure vision, grind the lens according to the prescription of ophthalmologist.
66 greek-optikos/opsis sight or vision
67 root-metron measurement
71 greek-orthos straight or correct
71 orthopaedist speciality treats deformities, injuries and diseases of the bones and joints.
71 orthodontics the straightening of teeth. greek-orthos straight or correct, root-odontos tooth
71 root-odontos tooth as in orthodontics
71 cardiologist heart doctor, greek=kardia heart
71 greek=kardia heart
71 cardiology study of heart, greek=kardia heart
72 cardiac refer to some malfunctioning of the heart. greek=kardia heart
72 cardiograph device that show electrically produce the graph of heartbeat. greek=kardia heart
72 cardiogram electrically produce the graph of heartbeat greek=kardia heart
72 neurologist the physician specialises in the disorder in brain, spinal cord or other nervous system, greek-neuron nerve
72 greek-neuron nerve as in neurologist the physician specialises in the disorder in brain, spinal cord or other nervous system,
72 neuralgia an acute pain along the nerves and their branches, greek-neuron nerve, root-algos pain,
72 root-algos pain as in neuralgia ( an acute pain along the nerves and their branches, greek-neuron nerve,
72 neuritis inflammation of the nerves, greek-neuron nerve,
72 neurosis abnormal or diseased condition related to neuron, greek-neuron nerve, root-osis abnormal or diseased condition
72 root-osis abnormal or diseased condition as in neurosis abnormal or diseased condition related to neuron
72 neurotic a person suffering from neurosis (abnormal or diseased condition related to neuron) greek-neuron nerve, root-osis abnormal or diseased condition
72 psychosis mental disorder, greek-psyche spirit,soul,mind, root-osis abnormal or diseased condition
72 psychotic one suffering from psychosis.
72 psychiatrist mind healer, root-iatreia medical healing, greek-psyche spirit,soul,mind 
72 greek-psyche spirit,soul,mind as in psychosis mental disorder, greek-psyche spirit,soul,mind, root-osis abnormal or diseased condition
72 root-iatreia medical healing as in psychiatrist
72 paediatrician child doctor, root-iatreia medical healing as in psychiatrist, greek-paidos child
72 geriatrics the speciality related to elderly needs, greek-geras old age
72 greek-geras old age as in geriatrics the speciality related to elderly needs
89 psychologist treats the mind with a councelling, greek-psyche spirit,soul,mind
89 psychic posses sixth sense. mind reading, greek-psyche spirit,soul,mind
89 greek-pathos suffering
89 psychopath suffering from extreme mental disorder, greek-pathos suffering
90 greek-soma body
90 psychosomatic when thinking affects the body like, if someone who fears the consequences of being present in the meeting suddenly develop a cold or backache or injured in an accident, so that his appearance in the meeting become impossible then a person is said to have a psychosomatic disorder.
90 psychoanalysis counselling to probe the actual reason behind the anxiety or other mental disorder and if possible, try to treat it.
91 psychoanalyst person who do the psychoanalysis.
91 psychogenic having a psychological origin or cause rather than a physical one. greek-psyche spirit,soul,mind 
92 psychotherapy sessions to cure psychogenic disorder.
95 periodontist a gum specialist, root-peri around, surroundings, root-odontos tooth as in orthodontics
95 root-peri around, surroundings 
95 greek-endo inner, within
95 endodontist specializes in work on pulp of the tooth and in root-canal therapy
96 thermometer an instrument to measure temp. greek-therme heat, root-metron measurement
96 greek-therme heat as in thermometer
96 barometer an instrument to measure atmospheric pressure, greek-baros weight, root-metron measurement
96 greek-baros weight as in barometer
96 sphygmomanometer an instrument to measure blood pressure, greek-sphygmos pulse, root-metron measurement
96 greek-sphygmos pulse as in sphygmomanometer (an instrument to measure blood pressure, greek-sphygmos pulse, root-metron measurement)
96 osteopath a person who treat disease or injury by applying pressure on nerves and bones, 
96 greek-cheir hand -chiro
96 chiropodist hand and foot alignment doctor, greek-cheir hand, latin-pedis/pons/podos foot
96 chiropractors heal with their hands, speciality is chiropractic greek-cheir hand -chiro
96 chirographer an expert in writing by hand or in penmanship, greek-cheir hand -chiro, greek-graphein to write
96 greek-mancy foretelling or prediction 
96 chiromancy a person who tells the fortune by reading hands. greek-cheir hand -chiro, greek-mancy foretelling or prediction
97 octopus eight armed greek-okto eight, latin-pedis/pons/podos foot
97 platypus animal have broad feet, greek-platys broad,flat, latin-pedis/pons/podos foot
97 greek-platys broad,flat
97 podium place for the feet suffix-ium place where
97 suffix-ium often signifies place where like gymnasium, stadium, auditorium, etc
97 podiatrist another name for chiropodist (hand and foot alignment doctor, greek-cheir hand, latin-pedis/pons/podos foot)
102 greek-graphein to write as in chirographer, graphologist (who analyses writing)
102 calligraphy beautiful handwriting greek-kallos beauty, greek-graphein to write
102 greek-kallos beauty as in calligraphy
102 greek-kakos bad, harsh
102 cacography bad handwriting, greek-kakos bad, harsh, greek-graphein to write
103 phonograph a sound writer greek-phone sound, greek-graphein to write
103 greek-phone sound as in phonograph (a sound writer greek-phone sound, greek-graphein to write)
103 biography life writing, greek-bios life, greek-graphein to write
103 greek-bios life as in biography
103 latin-senex old as in senior
103 senile showing sign of the physical or mental detioriation that generally marks old age. noun senility latin-senex old
103 senescent growing old latin-senex old
103 senior older latin-senex old
103 senate originally a council of older, and presumably wiser citizens.
120 greek-astron stars as in astronaut
120 astronomer a person who intrested in arrangement of stars, greek-astron stars, greek-nomos arrangement
120 greek-nomos law,arrangement
120 astrology study of stars, greek-astron stars
120 astronaut sailing among the stars, greek-astron stars, greek-nautes sailor 
120 greek-nautes sailor as in astronaut
120 cosmonaut used by russian, greek-kosmos universe, greek-nautes sailor
120 greek-kosmos universe as in cosmonaut
120 nautical relating to sailing, ships or navigation, greek-naus ship
121 greek-naus ship as in nautical
121 nausea sea-sickness greek-naus ship
121 aster a star shaped flower, greek-astron stars
121 asterisk * symbol, greek-astron stars
121 disaster bad happening as greek things that bad is happening due to stars. greek-astron stars.
121 autonomy if you are independent then you enjoy autonomy, auto-self, greek-nomos law,arrangement
121 autonomous self governing (state) auto-self, greek-nomos law,arrangement
121 metronome an instrument that beginners at the piano used to guide the timing. greek-nomos law,arrangement, root-metron measurement
121 geologist a person who is expert in the geography greek-geo earth
121 greek-geo earth as in geologist
121 geometry branch of science that deals in the shapes present on earth greek-geo earth
122 geography writing about or mapping the earth greek-geo earth, greek-graphein to write
122 george geo-rge earth worker or farmer, greek-geo earth
122 biology study of life, root-bios life,
122 biograpgy writing about someone's life, root-bios life, greek-graphein to write
122 root-bios life as in biology
122 autobiography writing about own life, root-bios life, greek-graphein to write
122 biopsy a medical  examination or a view generally through a microscope of a living tiisue. generally performed when cancer is suspected.
122 autopsy medical examination of a corpse
122 botanist study of flora, plants, greek-botane plant
122 greek-botane plant as in botanist
122 zoologist study of fauna, animal, greek-zoion animal
122 greek-zoion animal as in zoologist
122 zodiac a diagram used is astrology greek-zoion animal
122 latin-scorpio scorpion
122 latin-leo lion
122 latin-cancer crab
122 latin-taurus bull
122 latin-aries ram
122 latin-pisces fish
129 greek-tome cutting as in entomology (study of insects as the insect appears cutting or a segmented creature)
129 entomology study of insects as the insect appears cutting or a segmented creature
129 latin-in+sectus in + to cut, insect
129 greek-ek out as in eccentric out of centre
129 +ectomy to cut out, tonsilectomy, hysterectomy (the uterus), appendectomy (appendix), mastectomy (breast), prostatectomy (prostate)
129 greek-kentron centre as in eccentricity 
129 eccentricity out of centre, deviating from the normal behaviour.
129 atom one that could not be cut any further. thus the smallest particle. greek-tome cutting
130 greek-ana up as in anatomy( cutting up the plant of animal to view the structure)
130 anatomy cutting up the plant of animal to view the structure greek-ana up, greek-tome cutting
130 tome exceptionally large book or one that is heavy and dull
130 greek-dicha in two as in dichotomy (splitting in two)
130 dichotomize-life splitting thelife in two parts like, teacher in the day and bartender at night, dichotomous thinking, good or bad
130 epitome essential part, very heart idea of the book. by cutting of all the extra part, greek-tome cutting
131 philogy lover of words.
131 linguistics science of language.
131 philander play around (sexually) , greek-philein love, greek-andros male, greek-harmonia harmony
131 philosophy love of wisdom, greek-sophos wise
131 greek-sophos wise
131 philadelphia city of brotherly love, greek-adelphos brother
131 greek-adelphos brother
131 greek-harmonia harmony
131 Aphrodite goddess of love an beauty
131 philtre a love potion greek-philein love
131 Aphrodisiac whichever arouse sexual desire, aphrodisiac fruit etc.
131 bibliophile one who loves books as collectibles, greek-biblion book, greek-philein love
131 greek-biblion book as in bibliophile
131 anglophile admires and is fond of british people,customs,culture, latin-Anglus english
131 latin-Anglus english
132 semanticist this liguistic scientist explores the relationship between language and thinking, words and meaning and determining psychological cause of what people say and write.
132 latin-socius social
132 anti-social this kind of person hates the society and his action is kind of destructive in nature for the society
132 asocial this kind of person dont want to get involved with the society.
155 notorious well known in a bad way, notorious lier, notorious thief, notorious killer, latin-notus known
155 latin-notus known as in notorious, noted
155 childlike admiring a man/woman unworldliness, opposite childish
155 childish if we get annoyed by a trait, opposite childlike
155 summit top of the mountain, latin-summus highest
155 latin-summus highest as in summit (top of the mountain)
155 consummate A consummate artist has reached the highest point of perfection, ex: a consummate liar. a consummate marriage, a consummate business deal.
156 incorrigible beyond reform, if a person does anything in excess and any effort to change or stop or reform is waste then it is incorrigible. latin-corrigo to correct or to straight. ex. incorrigible liar, incorrigible optimist, incorrigible philanderer etc.
156 latin-corrigo to correct or to straight as in incorrigible (beyond reform, incorrigible liar )
156 latin-vetus old as in inveterate grown old with. ex inveterate liar, inveterate gambler, inveterate drinker
156 inveterate  grown old with. ex inveterate liar, inveterate gambler, inveterate drinker, latin-vetus old
157 veteran as in armed forces, grew older serving the country OR an old hand in game (skilful, veteran actor, swimmer.diplomat, etc latin-vetus old
157 greek-genesis birth or origin as in genetics (study of genes)
157 genetics it is the science that deals with the transmission of characteristics  from parents to offspring. greek-genesis birth or origin
157 geneticist scientist specializing in the field of genetics, greek-genesis birth or origin
157 genealogy study of family tree and ancestral origins, greek-genesis birth or origin
157 genital sexual organ involved in the process of conception and birth, greek-genesis birth or origin
157 genesis beginning, of anything, a plan, idea, thought, career, greek-genesis birth or origin
157 congenital occurs during the nine month period. ex congenital deformity, or congenital defect, congenital liar. congenital fear of dark, prefix-con with or together ,  greek-genesis birth or origin.
157 prefix-con with or together as in congenital occurs during the nine month period. ex congenital deformity, or congenital defect, congenital liar. prefix-con with or together ,  greek-genesis birth or origin.
162 chronic again and again, chronic disease: which come again and again, chronic liar: who lies again and again. greek-chronos time
162 greek-chronos time as in chronic.
162 anachronous is someone or something that is out of time, out of date or belonging to some different era. greek-chronos time
162 prefix-ana is negativen as in anachronous, is someone or something that is out of time
162 incongruous out of place, it is incongruous to wear a wasp pant to a formal wedding
163 chronological in correct time order, greek-chronos time 
163 chronology is a science of time order or an accurate dating of events. greek-chronos time 
163 chronometer a highly accurate time piece, greek-chronos time 
163 prefix-syn together as in synchronize.
163 synchronous to time together or to move, happen, or cause to happen at the same time or rate.
163 pathological is a diseased condition, if a person is having a pathological condition then person is having a disease or ill.
163 pathology study of science that deals with disease.
163 pathologist is an expert who examines a tissue either by autopsy or biopsy to diagnose disease,
163 sympathetic feel or suffer with someone
164 antipathy if a person feel antipathy to other then he/she feel against them, feel strong dislike of hostility
164 apathy lack of feeling or emotion.
164 empathy feel as you are that person, 
164 pathetic such a person may arouse sympathy or pity, pathetic story is about suffering and again arouse sadness.
164 telepathy mental communication
170 conscience is your knowledge with morale sense of right or wrong.
170 unconscionable without knowing, latin-sciens knowing
170 omniscient possessed of infinite knowledge, latin-sciens knowing
170 prefix-pre before as in prescience (knowing about event before they occur)
170 prescience knowing about event before they occur, latin-sciens knowing, prefix-pre before
170 nescient not knowing or ignorant, latin-sciens knowing, prefix-ne not
170 latin-sciens knowing
170 prefix-ne not
171 glib slippery, as glib liar, they have ready answers, fluent tounges.
171 latin-gregis herd or flock
171 egregious-lie vicious
171 gregarious a type of person who gets happy in people or surrounding, extroverts are gregarious, latin-gregis herd or flock
171 prefix-se apart as in segregate, to break the group 
171 segregate to break the group, prefix-se apart, latin-gregis herd or flock
171 aggregate to join the group, latin-gregis herd or flock
171 congregation a religious "flock"
191 disparaging lowering someone's par, opposite to the people like salman khan; people who hates a person no matter what and spread bad thing like modi wins the election due to scam in EVM. n if he wins this time too then there is another EVM scam. Latin-par equal, prefix-dis negative
191 equivocating this is yes and no too take which ever answer you want to hear, especially netas in election
192 titillate things that emotionally pamper you like you read a novel and you liked it so much that you want to sleep while hugging. or a delightful desert.. these thing titillates you.
192 adulate ye to Ram h. like salman khan fans. those who only view the good things.
192 proscribing if doctor is saying that you cant eat rice or cold things then he is proscribing harmful item in your diet. 
193 obviate if you have a good financial foundation then it obviate a fear of bankruptcy. preparation can obviate the last minute fear before exam.
193 militates kind of a person who unconsciously willing to fail but consciously work hard. ex: it militates against success
193 maligning spreading rumour. like she is sleeping around, he is a notorious wife beater. like gali m khadi aurto ki bakwas. uski bahu to esi h wesi h then they are maligning everyone.
193 condone if your answer is affirmative, how you are reacting to this "ladki hot h to thda flirt kr skte h. afterol ladke to flirt krte hi h.. social acceptable h ye to" or "income tax chori to kr hi skte he,, thodi hi sahi.. sab hi karte h" then this act is condoning yourself..  
194 placate to regain the hostility of a friend, mana lena kisi ko.
198 Latin-par equal  in golf, each course or hole has certain par achieved by expert player. so your game may be at par, below par or above par. 
198 parity equality. when we talk about parity payment, we talk about the true and equal income earned on which he agreed upon. Latin-par equal
198 disparity or disparate, means difference, disparity between someone's promise and performance. Latin-par equal, prefix-dis negative
199 compare two things are compared when they have certain equal or similar quantities. Latin-par equal, prefix-com with. together 
199 pair,peer pairs are equal or similar, while peer are those equal to you in age, position, rank or ability. Latin-par equal
199 equivocate equal voice, done purposely, politicians are master of equivocating latin-aequus equal latin-vox/vocis voice
199 latin-aequus equal as in equivocate
199 latin-vox/vocis voice as in equivocate
199 unequivocal response which is either yes or no. latin-aequus, latin-vox/vocis voice 
199 ambiguous if an sentence is ambiguous then it admits of both affirmative and negative interpretations. without knowing. root-ambi both
200 double-entendre  (DÔÔB' -lahn -TAHŃ drê) french translation of double meaning (sexually)
204 equity justice, fairness i.e. equal treatment equal amount, latin-aequus equal as in equivocate
204 inequity injustice, unfairness, latin-aequus equal as in equivocate, prefix-in negative
204 iniquity inequity is more inequity, wicked, sinful, adj: iniquitous, latin-aequus equal as in equivocate
204 equinox equal night latin-aequus equal as in equivocate, root-nox,noctis night near to march 21 & sep 21 adj: equinoctial
204 root-nox,noctis night as in equinox equal night
204 nocturnal plant or animal that are more active in night time then day time. 
205 nocturne is a musical composition of a dreamy character or night scene painting,
205 equanimity equal mind, a kind of person who is calm when everyone freaks out. 
205 equability a person have equal ability , even temprament, syn of equanimity,
205 equilibrium equal weight, latin-aequus equal, root-libra weight 
205 root-libra weight as in equilibrium equal weight.
205 equilibrist a professional tight rope walker
205 equestrian is someone on horse, root-equine horse , equestrian statue
205 root-equine horse as in, equestrian is someone on horse
205 equestrienne a women on horse
206 vociferous loud, noisy , clamorous voice. latin-vox/vocis voice as in equivocate
206 vocalise to give voice to, ex: vocalise your anger
206 vocalist a singer. latin-vox/vocis voice as in equivocate
213 root-scibo/scriptus to write as in proscribe
213 describe prefix-de down, root-scibo/scriptus to write
213 prefix-de down as in describe, write down
213 subscribe to write the name under an order or contract root-sub under, root-scibo/scriptus to write
213 inscribe to write in or into,
213 postscript ps. latin-post after, root-scibo/scriptus to write
213 latin-post after
213 postcredit scene after done with credit 
214 latin-via by way of, road, Via Appia was one of the famous highways of ancient Roman times.
214 obvious latin-via by way of, road, right there in the middle of the road, clearly seen, not hidden, 
214 trivial less important, when three roads meet, you are unlikely to talk important or confidential. 
214 militates-against it fight against you, i.e. work for your disadvantage. latin-militis soldier or fighter
214 latin-militis soldier or fighter as in militates-against
215 militant-reformer fights for reforms
215 militia military latin-militis soldier or fighter
215 latin-malus bad, evil, to malign
215 malignant showing deep  hatered, a malignant glance. latin-malus bad, evil
215 malignancy-(medically) cancerous growth. latin-malus bad, evil
215 root-dico/dictus to say or tell, as in malediction, a curse
215 malediction a curse, latin-malus bad, evil, root-dico/dictus to say or tell
215 root-volo to wish, to will or to be willing as in a malevolent glance
215 malevolent wishing evil. malevolent glance, attitude, feeling root-volo to wish, latin-malus bad, evil,
215 root-facio/factus to do or make, as in maleficent doing harm or evil
215 malefactor wrong doer, an evil doer, latin-malus bad, evil, root-facio/factus to do or make
215 french-mal latin-malus bad,evil
216 maladroit less skilful. (bad right hand) french-mal latin-malus bad,evil, root-adroit right hand
216 malaise bad ease, disease, lack of ease. french-mal latin-malus bad,evil
221 root-bonus/bene good
221 benign or benignant, kindly, good natured, ex: benign neglect, a benign judge, opp: malign. root-bonus/bene good
221 benediction good saying, opp: malediction, curse, root-bonus/bene good, root-dico/dictus to say or tell
221 benefactor one who do good, root-bonus/bene good, root-dico/dictus to say or tell
221 benefactress girl who do good, root-bonus/bene good, root-dico/dictus to say or tell
221 beneficiary one who is getting the benefit , root-bonus/bene good,, root-facio/factus to do or make
222 latin-fide faith as in bona fide or fidelity.
222 bona-fide in good faith. root-bonus/bene good, latin-fide faith as in bona fide, 
222 fidelity faithfulness latin-fide faith as in bona fide,
222 infidelity unfaithfulness, especially to the marriage vows,
222 addiction saying to or toward, the compulsion to say 'yes' to a habit. root-dico/dictus to say or tell
222 factory a place where things are made, root-facio/factus to do or make, suffix-ory place where 
222 suffix-ory place where as in factory a place where things are made, root-facio/factus to do or make
222 artificial thing made by the art of human or not natural, root-facio/factus to do or make,
222 voluntary volunteer, act by own wish root-volo to wish, 
223 placate to please, soothe or pacify, root-plac please
223 root-plac please as in placate to please,
223 implacable which can not be pleased .
223 placid if you are placid the you are calm, easy going, undisturbed, you are pleased with the things as they are. root-plac please 
223 complacent you are pleased with yourself, your position, or narrow accomplishment
224 condone is to forgive, overlook, pardon, root-dono to give
224 root-dono to give as in donate or donation.
240 clamorous a loud noise of people shouting ; vociferous 
240 vehement showing strong force, passionate or intense ; vociferous ex: her voice was low but vehement
241 brevity concise and exact use of words in writing or in speech, ; laconic. ex: the staff will edit manuscripts with a view to brevity and clarity
245 taciturn one to remain silent, dont want to indulge is conversation. latin-taceo to silent
245 latin-taceo to silent
246 tacit silent, a tacit reply, acceptance, denying, agreement etc
246 reticent one who prefer to keep silent.
246 loquacious person who talk talk and talk, you wish that they would take a break to breath once so that you can have your turn. latin-loquor to speak
246 latin-loquor to speak as in loquacious, person who talk talk and talk
247 soliloquy talking to ourselve in mind silently. verb: soliloquize, latin-loquor to speak
247 ventriloquist one who throw the voice. listener think that the voice is coming from other source than the person speaking. 'speaking from the belly' , latin-ventri belly, latin-loquor to speak,
247 latin-ventri belly, as in ventriloquist speaking from the belly
247 colloquial informal conversation, in which grammer is incorrect but sentece is acceptable. daily conversation. latin-loquor to speak
247 circumlocution a talking around, any way of expressing an idea that is roundabout or indirect is circumlocutory.
252 root-laconia sparta, noted for their economy of speech, if we capture you city, laconic
252 laconic economical use of words till the point of curtness, precisely.
252 pithy expressing an idea cleverly in few words; laconic
252 stoical-spartans stoikal, determined not to complain or show feeling especially when something bad happens to you.
253 cogent latin-congo, compel, a cogent argument compels acceptance because of its logic, its persuasiveness and its appeal to one's sense of reason.
253 eloquent speaks out (e-, ex- out), latin-loquor to speak, speaks out vividly, expressive fluent.
253 magniloquent/grandiloquent use of high-flown. grandiose, even pompous language. flowery or overelegant phraseology. (magnus,large), (grandis, grand), latin-loquor to speak
254 verbose latin-verbum words, use of excessive words to express an idea and this led to dullness
254 voluble latin-volvo to roll, words rolling smoothly through a voluble speaker's tongue.
254 garrulous latin-garrio, to chatter, a garrulous old man, chattering like a monkey
254 latin-verbum words, as in verbose
254 latin-volvo to roll as in voluble
254 latin-garrio to chatter as in garrulous
254 magnanimous big hearted, generous, forgiving. great minded root-animus mind
254 magnate a person of great power and influence, as a business magnate.
254 magnify to make larger
255 magnum a large bottle
255 magnum-opus latin-opus work, a big work, masterpiece of an artist, writer or composer.
255 verbiage has 2 meaning, 1. an excess of words, 2. style or manner of using words. 
262 ventral-side front side of an animal, anterior side- the belly side, latin-ventri belly,
262 ventrile,auricle chamber of the heart, latin-ventri belly,, latin-auris ear, vetricle-lower portion/chamber/valves, auricle-ear shape like upper posrtion/chamber/valves.
262 latin-auris ear as in auricle. upper chamber of the heart, earshaped
263 avuncular like an uncle, caring, protective etc
263 latin-dorsum dorsal back side
263 endorse endorse a cheque- sign on the 'back' side, endorsement an ad- you back in like you take the responsibility of the product. you 'back in'.
264 root-somnus sleep as in somniferous root-somnus sleep, root-fero give
264 somniferous root-somnus sleep, root-fero give. sleep giving, ex:a somniferous lecture, debate,seminar etc
264 insomnia prefix-in negative, root-somnus sleep. cant sleep
264 somnolent sleepy, drowsy root-somnus sleep
264 root-ambulo to walk, as in somnambulism sleep walker
264 ambulatory-patient is finally enough to walk. root-ambulo to walk,
264 perambulator-or-pram a baby carriage, root-ambulo to walk,
264 amble walk aimlessly , root-ambulo to walk, like preable- before walk or before start, amble is walk aimlessly
264 preable before walk or before start, introduction statement
264 convalescent a person recovering from an illness or medical treatment; ambulatory-patient
265 latin-sopar sleep
265 soporific a sleepy lecture or sleeping pill
265 banal not original
270 trite lacking originality or dullness, dull on account of overuse; banal
284 martinet strict, unquestioning obedience, drill master. Jean Martinet an inspector general during the reign of King Louis XIV. 
284 derogatory showing a critical or disrespectful attitude, ex: she tells me fat and is always making derogatory remarks.
284 epithet nickname(negative), tag, title, label, ex: old man are often unfairly awarded as epithet 'dirty'.
284 picturesque  visually attractive especially in a quaint or charming way. quaint-attractive unusual or old-fashioned ex: quaint country cottages.
284 quaint attractive unusual or old-fashioned ex: quaint country cottages.
285 sycophant he cultivates friend that cultivates him good-financially. favour the police by telling about their partners. greek-sykon fig- gesture (not extacly) but sycophant gesture to their partners so that they got caught by police officers. greek-phanein to show
285 fig- gesture (not extacly) but sycophant gesture to their partners so that they got caught by police officers.
285 greek-phanein to show as in sycophant he cultivates friend that cultivates him good-financially. favour the police by telling about their partners. greek-sykon fig- gesture (not extacly) but sycophant gesture to their partners so that they got caught by police officers.
285 greek-dia through as in diaphanous see through fabric
285 diaphanous see through fabric, gauzy, filmy or translucent greek-dia through, greek-phanein to show
285 dilettante a dilettante paints, writeds, composes, plays a musical instrument purely for amusement and not to make money out of it. italian-dilettare to delight
285 italian-dilettare to delight as in dilettante.
285 tyro novice , beginner in some art, inexperienced but one who full of ambition, drive and energy.
286 virtuoso one who developed a consummate skills in an art especially in music.
286 virago coarse, aggressive or loud mouthed women. termagant and harridan are words with essentially the same uncomplimentary meaning as virago. latin-vir man , man are usually aggressive then women.
286 latin-vir man as in virago coarse, aggressive or loud mouthed women.
286 chauvinist anything you own or belong is better simply because you own it, your religion, political party, member of your own sec is intellegent. 
287 latin-pater,patris father as in paternity fatherhood
287 patriotic latin-pater,patris father, in a sense one's fatherland
287 patrimony inheritance from one's father, money, latin-pater,patris father, mony-money (but not always )
287 patronymic a name formed on fathers name, like johnson (son of john), latin-pater,patris father, greek-anyma name
287 greek-anyma name as in patronymic a name formed on fathers name
287 homophones words that sound same but different meaning.
287 paternity fatherhood, latin-pater,patris father
287 paternal fatherly latin-pater,patris father
287 paternalism philosophy or system of governing the country or of managing a business or institution so that the citizens or staff treated in a manner suggesting the father children relationship 
288 patriarch a venerable fatherlike old man in a ruling fatherlike position. greek-archein to rule
288 greek-archein to rule as in patriarch
288 venerable respectful, humble, kind.. vulnerable exposed to potential attack 
288 patricide killing own father
288 latin-mater,matris mother as in maternity motherhood
288 maternity motherhood, latin-mater,matris mother
288 matriarch the mother-ruler, latin-mater,matris mother, greek-archein to rule 
288 maternal motherly latin-mater,matris mother
288 matron older woman, one sufficiently mature to be a mother. the younger charm has gone, and fat is coming at all the wrong places.
289 alma-mater a school or college which one formally attended, ex: she become a teacher in her alma-mater
289 toady act in an obsequious way to rich, obsequious- obedient to an excessive or servile degree; sycophant
289 obsequious- obedient to an excessive or servile degree, ex: he was served by the obsequious waiters
289 matricide killing one's mother
289 fratricide killing one's brother, root-fratris brother
289 root-fratris brother, as in fratricide killing one's brother
289 sororicide killing one's sister.
289 root-soror sister as in sororicide killing one's sister.
289 homicide the killing of human being, if intent and premedication is proved. 
289 manslaughter killing in an accident, or when there is no intention to kill. 
290 regicide killing the king, latin-rex,regis king
290 latin-rex,regis king as in regicide killing the king
290 uxoricide killing one's wife, latin-uxor wife
290 latin-uxor wife as in uxoricide killing one's wife
290 latin-maritius husband, as in mariticide killing of one's husband 
290 mariticide killing of one's husband , latin-maritius husband
290 infanticide killing the new born child 
290 genocide killing the race, as hitler mass murder the jews.
290 parricide killing of both or either parents or close relative. 
299 fraternize brotherly relationship  root-fratris brother
300 fraternal non identical (twins)  root-fratris brother
300 fraternity people of similar interests or profession (the medical fraternity, the financial fraternity)
300 sorority a women's organization especially one in american school or college
300 uxorious a man who excessively, caters to, dotes on, worship his wife. latin-uxor wife
300 uxorial wife duties,attitude, privileges
300 marital marriage, marital duties, extra marital affairs, pre martial sex
300 regal royal, latin-regis king
301 regalia refer to an impressive formal clothes or uniform, ex: five star general appeared in full regalia
301 monomaniac abnormal obsession to one single thing
301 dipsomaniac greek-dipso thirst compulsion to keep on absorbing alcoholic beverages
301 kleptomania morbid compulsion to thief. greek-klepte thief
301 greek-klepte thief as in kleptomania - morbid compulsion to thief.
301 greek-dipso thirst as in dipsomaniac- thirst compulsion to keep on absorbing alcoholic beverages
301 pyromania morbid compulsion to fires
301 morbid horrible. as morbid compulsion means horrible
302 incendiarism malicious and deliberate burning to another's property for revenge. anti social
302 arsonist burn the building or home to get insurance money, they are not maniac or something, its just an act.
302 greek-pyros fire as in pyromania morbid compulsion to fires
302 megalomania morbid delusions to get power, importance, godliness etc
303 nymphomania morbid, incessant, uncontrollable desire on the part of a female for sex. greek-nymphe bride
303 satyromania morbid, incessant, uncontrollable desire on the part of a male for sex. satyr- a greek, notorious god for lechery
303 greek-nymphe bride as in nymphomania morbid, incessant, uncontrollable desire on the part of a female for sex.
303 claustrophobia latin-claustrum enclosed spaces
303 latin-claustrum enclosed spaces as in claustrophobia
303 agoraphobia fear of open spaces, mainly in crowdy places like airports, buildings. greek-agora market place
303 greek-agora market place as in agoraphobia
304 acrophobia morbid dread of high places, greek-akros highest
304 greek-akros highest  as in acrophobia
304 dread great fear, ex: acrophobia- morbid dread of high places,
305 abducted take (someone) away illegally by force or deception, kidnap.
311 iconoclast one who attempt expose our cherish beliefs, our revered traditions or our stereotypical thinking of shams and myth, greek-eikon a religious image, greek-klaein to break
311 greek-eikon a religious image as in iconoclast
311 greek-klaein to break as in iconoclast
311 atheist one who deny the existence of deity, prefix-a negative, greek-theos god
311 agnostic one who does not deny the existence of a deity but holds that no proof can be adduced one way or the other. greek-gnostic known
311 greek-gnostic known as in agnostic- one who does not deny the existence of a deity but holds that no proof can be adduced one way or the other
312 diagnosis knowing through examination.
312 prognosis knowing beforehand (about a disease) ex: you ma say to a doctor: "whats the diagnosis, doctor" D:'Diabtes', then you say, "and whats the prognosis?" D: 'if you take insulin and watch your diett, you'll soon be as good as new'. the doctot lnow beforehand about the disease.
312 prognosticate forecasting, it may be politically, economically, financially etc
313 monotheism belief in one good, greek-theos god
313 polytheism  belief in many god.
313 pantheism belief that god is not in man's image but, isa combination of all forces in the universe
313 theology study of god and religion, theologian
313 lecher (related to sexuality) one who in the search of sex. french-lechier to lick
313 french-lechier to lick as in lecher
313 libidinous (related to sexuality) latin-libido pleasure
313 lascivious (related to sexuality) root-lascivia, feeling or revealing an overt sexual interest or desire. ex:  he gave her a lascivious wink
313 lubricious (related to sexuality) root-lubricity, or lubricate , slippry. offensively displaying or intended to arouse sexual desire. ex: "he probed the ladies for every lubricious detail of their interactions" oil on body.
313 licentious (related to sexuality) license, permission. ignoring societal standards, particularly in sexual conduct. ex: the ruler's tyrannical and licentious behaviour
313 tyrannical using powers in a cruel way. ex: she tyrannize her family
313 lewd (related to sexuality) crude and offensive in a sexual way.
313 vile extremely unpleasant. ex: "he has a vile temper"
313 lustful (related to sexuality) having or showing strong feelings of sexual desire ex: "lustful glances"
314 overt done or shown openly, an overt act of aggression.
314 prurient (related to sexuality) having or encouraging an excessive interest in sexual matters, especially the sexual activity of others. ex: "she'd been the subject of much prurient curiosity" 
314 pruritic itchy skin disease
314 hypochondria morbidly anxious about health
314 hypertension high BP
314 hypotension low BP
328 ostracize exclude from a society or a group, ex: she was declared a witch and ostracized by the villegers
328 silhouette A silhouette is the image of a person, animal, object or scene represented as a solid shape of a single color, usually black, 
329 sadist a person who derives pleasure, especially sexual gratification, from inflicting pain or humiliation on others.
329 galvanized shock or excite someone into action. ex: the urgency of his voice galvanized them into action.
330 bayonet a knife or dagger like attachment that fits over the muzzle end of a gun.
333 genial friendly and cheerful. ex:"our genial host"
333 cordial warm and friendly. ex: "the atmosphere was cordial and relaxed"
333 affable friendly, good-natured, or easy to talk to. ex: "an affable and agreeable companion"
334 illimitable limitless, ex:  illimitable energy
334 chicanery the use of deception to achieve one's purpose. ex: "storylines packed with political chicanery" 
335 audacious showing a willingness to take surprisingly bold risks, ex: "a series of audacious takeovers"
335 dauntless showing fearlessness and determination. ex: "dauntless bravery"  
335 intrepid fearless; adventurous (often used for rhetorical or humorous effect). ex: "our intrepid reporter"
335 tactful having or showing skill and sensitivity in dealing with others or with difficult issues. ex: "they need a tactful word of advice"
339 latin-vivo to live as in convivial 
339 convivial (of a person) cheerful and friendly; jovial. ex: she was relaxed and convivial. latin-vivo to live
339 vivacious (for women) full of joy,(personality) highly spirited. ex:her vivacious and elegant mother. latin-vivo to live
340 vivid possessing the freshness of life, ex: vivid color, latin-vivo to live
340 revive bring back to life. latin-vivo to live
340 vivisection process of experimenting on the live animal to discover causes and cures of disease. latin-vivo to live
340 antivivisectionist one who object the practise of vivisection. latin-vivo to live
340 viviparous producing live babies, not eggs, like humans or mammals, latin-vivo to live while oviparous produce young from eggs.
340 oviparous produce young from eggs, latin-ovum egg
340 latin-ovum egg as in oviparous
340 latin-vita life as in vital
340 vital essential to life 
340 vigour physical health and good health, ex: I am 73 but still full of vigour and vitality.
341 revitalize bring back life to, (used as symbolic ), ex: a programme is  vitalized, revitalized or devitalized  according to how its planned.
342 physical-lassitude lack of energy ex: she was overcome by lassitude and retired to bed
342 gourmand a person who enjoys eating and often eat too much, stuff oneself like a pig. 
342 connoisseur an expert judge in a matter of taste, specialist ex: a connoisseur of music, food etc
343 gourmet a person who has a keen interest in food and kind of connoisseur of good food.
343 glutton someone who has excessive fond of something or voracious (wanting or devouring great quantities of food.), insatiable(impossible to satisfy) appetite for money, sex , punishment etc ex: he's a glutton for adventure
343 insatiable impossible to satisfy.
349 ingenious shrewd clever inventive
350 credulous believe almost anything
350 gullibility easily tricked, easily fooled
352 credo personal belief, the principles by which people guide their action, geeta m likha h ki.....
352 creed a religion belief hinduism, catholicism 
352 disingenuous , ingenious means frank and open, thus disingenuous means who pretend to be ingenious but in reality is clever, like a wolf in sheep's clothing.
356 retrospect a looking back.
356 conspicuous easily seen or looked at. ex: he showed conspicuous bravery.
356 perspicacious per-spi-kacious person is keen minded, mentally sharp., prefix-pre through, so word means looking through (matters,etc) keenly, intelligently.
356 acumen mentally sharp, quickness, keen insight, latin-acuo to sharpen as in acute, sharp
356 latin-acuo to sharpen as in acute, sharp
356 acute sharp sudden as in acute pain, acute attack of appendicitis, acute reasoning.
356 acupuncture insertion of sharp needle into the body for medical purposes. root-punctus point
356 root-punctus point
357 punctuate punctuate a sentence(you put various point {full stops, commas etc}), lightning punctuate a storm, silence punctuate by police sirens.... interrupt.
357 punctilious pungk-TIL'-i-es showing great attention to detail or correct behavious, ex: he was punctilious in providing every amenity for his guests.
357 astute-businessman having or showing an ability to accurately assess situations or people and turn this to one's advantage. ex: as astute businessman. 
357 perspicuous applies to writing style which is easy to understand, language is clear
358 prospect looking forward, prospective bride, holidays, tours etc. future plans
358 introspect looking inwards, atma chintan.
358 circumspection watchful, cautious, alert.
358 specious something looks good or sensible but actually is not., a specious argument may look plausible but in reality os based on error, a fallacy, or an untruth.
395 penury the state of being poor, extremely poor. ex:he couldn't face another year of penury.
395 devoid entirely lacking or free from. ex: Lisa kept her voice devoid of emotions. 
395 vicarious experienced in the imagination through the feelings or action of another person. ex: this catalogue brings vicarious feeling of being luxury.
395 longings an extreme desire ex: miranda felt the wistful longing for the old days,
395 yearning a feeling of extreme longings for something. ex: he felt a yearning for the mountains.
395 wistful sad and thinking of something that is impossible or in past. ex: she spoke wistfully of their early years together. 
395 ephemeral anything that last for short time and leaves no traces. ex: fashions are ephemeral: new ones regularly drive out the old
396 tenet a principle  or belief, especially one of the main principle or belief in religion. ex: one of the basic tenets of semantics.
396 euphemisms a mild or indirect word or expression substituted for one considered to be too harsh or blunt when referring to something unpleasant or embarrassing. ex: toilet- powder room, washroom.... die-expire, pass away, leave this vale of tears.... etc
397 badinage (ba·duh·naazh) humorous or witty conversation. ex: this is the time for business questions, not badinage
397 banter exchange remark in good-humoured easing way. ex: the man bantered with the waitresses 
397 bovine (cowlike) of a person, stupid, slow, dim-witted, sluggish, ex: he had a gentle, slightly bovine expression.
397 nostalgia a sentimental longings for the period of past, ex: when you pass the neighbourhood in which you born and where you spent early years, do you have sharp strange reaction of mind nausea, that feeling is nostalgia.
398 cacophonous sounds that grate. ex: the cacophonous sound of slot machine.
398 clandestine kept secret or done secretly especially because illicit. ex: she deserved better than these clandestine meetings.
402 dire extremely serious or urgent, ex: misuse of drugs can have dire consequences. 
402 abject extremely unpleasant or degrading. ex: the abject condition of the peasants. 
402 stingy ungenerous, mean. ex: her boss is stingy and idle.
402 close-fisted unwilling to spend money, mean. ex: closefisted administration refusing to give money to students for their cultural festival.
402 niggardly ungenerous with money. ex: he accused government of being unbelievably niggardly.
402 parsimonious very unwilling to spend money, ex: even the parsimonious joe paid for drinks all round.
402 frugality quality of being economical with money or food. ex: he scorned the finer things in life and valued frugality and simplicity. 
402 scorned to reject, turned down. ex: he scorned the finer things in life and valued frugality and simplicity. 
402 indigence the state of extreme poverty, syn: destitution ex: he did valuable work for toward the relief of indigence.
402 destitution dire poverty. ex: the family faced eviction and destitution.
402 eviction the action of expelling someone from the property. 
403 straitened characterized by poverty, ex: they live in straitened circumstances.
403 affluent having a great deal of money, wealthy. ex: the affluent societies of western world. 
403 opulent ostentatiously costly and luxurious. ex: the opulent comfort of a limousine. 
403 ostentatiously in a pretentious or showy way designed to impress. ex: he ostentatiously announced on television that he was leaving.
403 confluence the junction of two rivers.
403 vicarious-intoxication when your friend is drunk and you got the feeling of high
403 agony dire physical and mental suffering. the final stage of a difficult or painful death. ex: his last agony.
403 giddy (feel like after consuming alcohol) disorienting and alarming but exciting.
404 evanescent (eh·vuh·neh·snt) quickly fading and disappearing, vanishing, ex: an evanescent arctic summer.
404 fleeting lasting for a very short time, move or pass quickly, ex: a variety of expressions fleeted across his face.
404 adolescent (a·duh·leh·snt)in the process of developing from a child into an adult. ex: his adolescent years.
404 convalesce recover one's health and strength over a period of time after the illness or medical treatment. ex: he spent eight month convalescing after the stroke
404 putrescent (pyoo·treh·snt) undergoing the process of decay; rotting. ex: the odour of putrescent flesh.
404 obsolescent becoming obsolete (ob-se-le-te) dying out, out of use, ex: obsolescent equipment 
405 euphony good sound, pleasant lilt or rhyme. ex: the poet put euphony before mere factuality.
405 lilt a characteristic of rising or falling voice when speaking, a pleasant gentle accent. ex: the lilt of the Hawaiian music. 
405 eulogy a speech or piece of writing that praises someone or something highly, especially a tribute to someone who has just died. the eulogy to the Queen Mother.
405 monologue a long speech by one actor in a play or drama.
405 epilogue a section or speech at the end of book or speech that serves as a conclusion to what has happened. ex: the meaning of the book's title is revealed in the epilogue .
405 prologue  a separate introductory section of literary, dramatic or musical work. ex: the suppressed prologue to Women in love.
405 euphoria a feeling or state of intense excitement and happiness. ex: the drug produces intense feeling of euphoria.
405 euthanasia (yoo-the-ne-sia) a painless killing of a patient suffering from an incurable disease or irreversible coma.
405 frivolous not having any serious purpose or value. ex: frivolous frills and lacy frills. 
405 flippant not showing a serious or respectful attitude. ex:  a flippant remark.
405 persiflage (per-si-flaazh) conversation that is funny and not serious. ex: all that has been said about the old age pensioners was just airy persiflage. 
405 contemptuous or contempt the feeling that a person or thing is worthless or beneath consideration.
405 scornful expressing contempt (the feeling that a person or thing is worthless or beneath consideration.) ex: the opposition were scornful of the prime minister's proposal.
405 derision (laughing) expressing contempt. ex: They treated his suggestion with derision.
405 platitude cliche remark especially one with moral content. ex: she began uttering liberal platitudes
405 truism cliche remark. ex: the truism that you got what you pay for.
405 anodyne intended to avoid causing any offence especially by not expressing strong feeling or opinions. ex: anodyne music.
406 bromide trite or dull statement.
406 allay diminish or put at rest (fear, suspicion or worry). ex: the report attempted to educate people and allay fear.
414 stolid calm, dependable, showing little emotion or animation, ex: a stolid bourgeois man
414 bourgeois belonging to or characteristics of middle class, typically reference to its perceived materialistic values or conventional attitudes, ex: a self confessed and proud bourgeois. 
414 sanctity the state of being sacred, holy or saintly''''' the quality of being very important and deserving respect. ex: the sanctity of human life.
414 phlegmatic stolid or calm person. ex: the phlegmatic British character
414 leonine like a lion in appearance or temperament. ex: a handsome, leonine profile.
414 canine relating to or resembling dog or dogs. ex: a canine behaviour. (kind of: kutto ki trh ladna )
414 feline resembling or suggestive of a cat. ex: she moved with feline grace.... feline walk.
414 porcine resembling a pig or pigs. ex: his round face and nose earned the porcine man the nick name of porky.
414 flushed red and hot, typically a result of illness or strong emotion. ex: her flushed cheeks.
414 vulpine (cunning, crafty ) relating to a fox or foxes, ex: Karl gave a vulpine smile.
414 thriving prosperous and growing, ex: the thriving vulpine population.
414 shrewd having or showing sharp power of judgement or astute. ex: she was shrewd enough to guess the motive of his gesture.
414 ursine relating to or resembling bears. ex: arriving in a ursine costume , the Halloween partygoer hoped his bear outfit was realistic enough.
414 lupine relating to wolf or wolves. ex: a lupine howl.
414 equine resembling a horse. ex: her somewhat equine features.
415 piscine fishlike fishing is a distinctive piscine activity. 
417 voracious having or eating great quantity of food. root-vora eating as in carnivorous
417 devouring voracious having or eating a great quantity of food.
415 root-carni flesh as in carnivorous, carnage, carnal.
418 omnibus a volume containing several books or previously published separately. ex: an omnibus or her first trilogy. 
418 carnelian a reddish gemstone. the colour of red flesh, root-carni flesh as in carnivorous, carnage, carnal. ex: carnelian color, brownish red
418 carnal relating to physical or sexual need, love for flesh not for soul. root-carni flesh as in carnivorous, carnage, carnal. ex: carnal desire.
418 carnage great destruction of life. ex: the bombing was timed to cause as much carnage as possible.
419 incarnate (especially of a deity or spirit) embodied in human form. ex: god incarnate 
419 furtive (fuh-tive) attempting to avoid notice or attention, typically because of guilt or a belief that discovery would lead to trouble. secretive. ex: they spent a furtive time together 
419 surreptitious kept secret, especially because it would not be approved of. ex: low wages were supplemented by surreptitious payments from tradesman. 
433 archaic very old or old fashioned ex: the spelling of english words is archaic. 
433 misbegotten badly conceived or planned. ex: designed to conserve fish stocks, this misbegotten idea scheme has reduced some species to near extinction.
433 reputable held in good repute, honorables, respectable. ex: english orthography satisfies all the requirement of the canons of reputability under the law of conspicuous waste.
433 cumbersome large or heavy and therefore difficult to carry or use, ex: cumbersome diving suits
433 erudite (aye-roo-dait) having or showing great knowledge or learning. ex: ken could turn any conversation into erudite discussion.
435 supersede (soo-puh-seed)take place of (a person or thing previously in authority or use) ex: the older model of the car have now been superseded.
435 ecstasy (uhk-stuh-see) the state of extreme happiness or pleasure (can be used for sexual pleasure) ex: she threw her head back as if in ecstasy .
435 inimitable so good or unusual as to be impossible to copy, unique. ex: the took the charts by storms with their inimitable style.
435 anoint smear or rub with oil. ex: kuna Indians anoint the tips of their arrows with poison.
436 dispair complete loss or absence of hope. ex: a voice full of self-hatered and despair. 
439 indispensable extremely necessary ex: education is indispensable for the preservation or democracy.
439 corroborate confirm or give support to (a statement, theory, finding) ex: the witness had corroborated the boy's account of the attack. 
439 sacrilege (sa-kruh-luhj)violation or misuse of what is regarded as sacred. ex: the sacrilege of committing a murder on holy ground
439 tranquil free from disturbance. calm. ex: passing cars are the only noise that disturb the tranquility or rural life.
439 exhilaration (uhg-zi-li-ration) making someone feel very happy, thrilling. an exhilarating two hour rafting experience.
439 perseverance (pehr-si-va-rence) persistence in doing something despite of difficulty or delay in achieving success. ex: his perseverance with the technique illustrates his single mindedness. 
439 vacillate waver between diferrent opinions or actions. confuse between. ex: I vacillated between teaching and journalism.
439 indecisive (in-duh-sai-sive) not able to make decision quickly and effectively. ex: he was too indecisive to carry out his political programme.
440 grievous (greev-uhs) very severe or serious. ex: his death was a grievous blow.
440 plebeian (pli-bi-an) of or belonging to the lower social classes. ex: two dancers, one royal and one plebeian.
443 vigil a period of keeping awake during the time usually spent asleep, especially to keep watch or pray. ex: my birdwatching vigils lasted for hours.
443 castigate (remember as resticate) scold someone severely, reprimand severely. ex: he castigated his child in front of whole school.
443 reprimand (re-pri-maand) a formal expression of disapproval. ex: the golfer received a reprimand for a breach of rules.
444 self-abnegating showing a disinterest and selfless for the well being of others, unselfish. ex: a loving and self-abnegating mother.
443 outmoded old fashioned, ex: an outmoded victorian building.
443 scrimp be thrifty or parsimonious, economize. ex: I have scrimped and saved to give you a good education.
444 recapitulate summarize and state again the main points of. ex: he began to recapitulate his argument with care.
444 vegetate live or spend a period of time in a dull, inactive, unchallenging way. ex: if she left him alone, he'd sit in front of television and vegetate. 
444 ennui (on-vi) a feeling of listlessness and dissatisfaction arising from lack or occupation, or excitement. ex: he succumbed to ennui and despair.
444 succumb (suh-kuhm) fail to resist pressure, temptation or some other negative force. ex: we cannot merely give up and succumb to despair
445 feign (fein) pretend to be affected by (a feeling, state or injury) ex: she feigned nervousness.
445 simulate imitate the appearance or character . ex: red ochre intended to simulate blood.
445 intimate closely acquainted, slight hint and no more. (can be refer to close like an intimate little italian resturant.) ( or can be used for private and personal like intimate details of his sexual encounters.) (or can be use for sexual relationship like the plan to wait before becoming intimate with one another).
445 alleviate make (suffering, deficiency or a problem ) less severe ex: he couldn't prevent her pain, only alleviate it.
446 commiserate (kah-mi-se-reit) expressing or feel sympathy or pity, sympathize ex: she went over to commiserate with rose on her unfortunate circumstances. 
446 vacillate (vasi-layt) waver between different opinions or actions; be indecisive. ex: I vacillate between teaching and journalism. 
446 resolute determined and unwavering, he was resolute in his fight to uphold liberal values.
446 virile having strength, energy and a strong sex drive. ex: he was a powerful, virile man.
450 synergy in the process in which two or more drugs or substance, by working together can produce greater effect in combination rather than the sum total of their individual effect. ex: alcohol and sleeping pills work synergistically.
451 rebuke expressing sharp disapproval or criticism because of their behaviour or action. ex: she had rebuked him for drinking too much,
451 censure express sharp disapproval in formal statements. ex: the company was heavily censured by inspectors from Dept. of Trade.
451 berate scold or criticise someone. ex: she berated herself for being fickle.
451 decapitate to cut someone's head, ex: with one swift movement, he decapitated the king
452 capitulate admit defeat, surrender. ex: the pirates had to capitulate to the enemy forces
452 stagnant showing no motion,... dull. ex: a stagnant economy.
455 dissemble conceal or disguise one true feeling of beliefs. ex: an honest, sincere person with no need to dissemble.
456 pejorative disapproval, disparaging ex: permissiveness is used almost universally as a pejorative term. 
456 frivolity lack or seriousness, ex: a night of fun and frivolity
456 solemnity the state or quality of being serious and dignified, his ashes were laid to rest with great solemnity. 
457 wretched its very unhappy or unfortunate, ex: I felt so wretched because I thought I might not see you again
457 ambivalence uncertainty, unsureness. feel both good or bad, right or wrong.
000 abridged (uh-brijd) having been shortened ex: an abridged text of the speech
468 compliance a formal act of obeying an order, rule or request. ex: the ways in which the state maintains order and compliance.
468 servility an excessive willingness to serve or please others. ex: a classical example of media servility
468 snob a person with exaggerated respect for high social position or wealth. ex: her mother was a snob and wanted a lawyer as a son in law. 
000 exaggerate (uhg-za-juh-reit) represent something as being larger, better or worsen then it really is. ex: he was apt to exaggerate any aches and pains.
468 pallor (pal-ler) an unhealthy pale appearance. ex: a deathlike pallor of his face.
468 endeavour (in-de-va-r) try hard to do or achieve something. ex: an endeavour to reduce serious injury.
468 courteous (kar-ti-as) polite, respectful, or considerate in manner. ex: she was courteous and obliging (ob-li-jing) to all.
468 subservient prepared to obey other unquestioningly. ex: she was subservient to her parents.
469 obsequies funeral rites
469 harping talk or write persistently and tediously on a particular topic. ex: I don't want to harp on about the past.
469 fretful feeling or expressing distress or irritation. ex: the baby was crying with a fretful whimper
000 whimper a series of low, feeble sounds expressive of fear, pain or unhappiness. ex: a child in a bed nearly began to whimper.
000 feeble lack of physical strength, especially as a result of age or illness, ex: by now he was too feeble to leave his room.
469 petulant refusing to be cooperative or bad-tempered. ex: he was moody and petulant.
469 whining the making of long , high pitched cry or sound. ex: dogs may exhibit signs of anxiety, such as whining, chewing and excessive barking.
469 querulous complaining in a rather petulant or whining manner. ex: she became querulous and demanding.
469 latin-cilium eyelid as in supercilious latin-super above, so aboce eyelids there are eyebrows. 
469 latin-super above as in supercilious 
469 disdain syn: contempt. the feeling that someone or something is unworthy of one's consideration or respect. ex: her upper lip curled in disdain.
469 sneering-arrogance contemptuous or mocking. ex: he made a sneering comment about their relationship.
469 conceited excessively proud of oneself. ex: Fred's so conceited he'd never believe anyone would refuse him.
469 supercilious behaving or looking as though one thinks one is superior to others. ex: a supercilious lady's maid.
469 latin-strepo to make noise as in obstreperous means anyone who is unruly, resist to authority or unmanageable and in a noisy, troublesome manner.
470 latin-pecus cattle as in impecunious means someone who have short of cash
470 impecunious (impi-cunious) having little or no money. ex: a little but impecunious family
470 pecuniary (pi-cu-nia-ry) relating to or consisting of money. ex: he admitted obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception
470 french-cheval horse, as in chivalrous in medieval time, only gentleman or knights have horse and they are very respectful to women so, whoever show respect to women in a gentleman type is called as chivalrous. 
470 cavalcade (kavel-keid) a formal procession of people walking, on horseback or riding in vehicles. ex: The Royal cavalcade proceeded through the city.
470 procession (pro-seh-shn) a number of people or vehicle moving forward in orderly fashion. especially as a part of ceremony
470 cavalier (kav-e-lier) arrogant, offhand. if you describe a person or their person cavalier, you are criticizing them because you think they do not consider other person's feelings or take account of the seriousness of a situation. ex: the editor takes the cavalier attitude to the concept of fast checking.
470 chivalry (shi-val-ri) knights, nobleman and horseman collectively. courteous behaviour especially that of a man towards women. ex: he still retained a sense of chivalry towards women.
470 haughty arrogant superior and disdainful. ex: a look of haughty disdain.
471 cavalry (kav-il-ri) soldiers who fought on horseback in the past, in the modern context, soldier who fight in armed vehicle. ex: a cavalry regiment.
471 latin-noceo to injure as in innocuous means harmless
471 innocuous not harmful or offensive. ex: it was an innocuous question
471 latin-bibo to drink as in bibulous who in short, has an over-fondness for alcoholic drinks
471 bibulous excessively fond of drinking alcohol.
472 imbibe if used single imbibe then it represent excessive drinking of alcohol. otherwise it refer to absorb or assimilate (ideas or knowledge). ex: if one does not imbibe the culture, one can not succeed.
472 bib a piece of cloth or plastic fastened round a child's neck to keep its clothes clean while eating,
472 latin-cado to fall as in cadaver, a corpse
472 gaunt lean and haggard, especially because of suffering, hunger, or age. ex: a tall gaunt woman in black. 
472 haggard (hag-ged) looking exhausted and unwell, especially from fatigue, worry, or suffering. ex: she was pale and haggard.
472 cadaverous (kuh-da-vuh-ruhs) very pale, thin or bony. ex: he was gaunt and cadaverous
472 cadaver (kuh-da-vuh) corpse 
472 decadent characterized by or reflecting a state of moral or cultural decline. ex: a decaying, decadent Britain. 
472 latin-doleo to suffer or grieve as in dolorous means who seemed to be suffering or grieving.
472 dolorous (dol-ruhs) feeling or expressing great sorrow or distress. ex: a dolorous and repetitive tale of atrocity.
000 atrocity an extremely wicked or cruel act typically one involving physical violence or injury. ex: a textbook which detailed war atrocities.
473 dolour a state of great sorrow or distress ex: they squatted, hunched in their habitual dolour
473 doleful expressing sorrow, mournful. ex: a doleful look.
473 dreary depressingly dull and bleak or repetitive. ex: the dreary round of working, eating and trying to sleep.
473 dismal causing a mood of gloom or depression. ex: the dismal weather made the late afternoon seem like evening.
473 condole expressing sympathy for (someone), grieve with. ex: The priest came to condole with Madeleine.
000 subtle (sub-tl) precise, fine, ultra fine, ex: his language expresses rich and subtle meanings
000 stern (stuhn) serious, strict, ex: stern measures to restrict vehicle growth.
000 thwart to stop something from happening or someone from doing something. ex: the jet engine fails to start even though its parts are in perfect repair- thus thwarting the hijackers. 
000 envy a feeling of discontented or resentful longings aroused by someone else's possessions, qualities or luck. ex; she felt a twinge of envy for the people on board
000 enviable arousing or likely to arouse, desirable. emit envy feeling for others. ex: the firm is in enviable position of having a full order book.
000 juxtaposition (jux-Ta(tamatar)-position) if a waiter served you a whole fish and a scoop of chocolate ice cream on the same plate, your surprise might be caused by juxtaposition, or the side-by-side contrast of the two foods, ex: but there is a striking juxtaposition between that strategy and the administration's words and actions since then.
000 discontented dissatisfied, especially with ones circumstances. ex: I am so discontented with my work.
000 resentful (re-zent-ful) feeling or expressing bitterness at having been treated unfairly. ex: he was angry and resentful of their intrusion
000 twinge (twinj) a sudden, sharp localized pain. ex: he felt a twinge in his knee.
000 indignation (in-dig-nation) anger or annoyance provoked by what is perceived as unfair treatment. ex:  the letter filled Lucy with indignation.
000 niche (nee-chei) a job or position that is very suitable for someone especially one that they like OR an area or position that is exactly suitable for a small group of same type. ex:an ecological niche 
101 abandon cease to support or look after. ex: Her natural mother had abandoned her at an early age.
102 abase disparaging, humiliate  ex: I watched my colleagues abasing themselves before the board of trustees. 
103 belittle disparaging ex: she belittled Amy's riding skills whenever she could.
104 abate decline, subside, lessen. ex: the storm suddenly abated.
105 subside become less intense, violent or severe. ex: I'll wait a few minutes until the storm subsides.
106 abbreviate shorten, abbreviation, shorten the duration of. ex: I decided to abbreviate my stay in Cambridge
107 abdicate (ab-duh-keit) resign, retire, quit, abjure, ex: the government was accused of abdicating its responsibility.
108 aberration aberration is something that is not normal, like when temperature hits 90 in January. or child labour working in coal mines. ex: they describes the outbreak of violence in the area as an aberration.
109 abet encourage or assist (someone) to do something wrong, in particular to commit a crime. ex: Pakistan is guilty because of aiding and abetting the terrorism,
110 abhor (ub-haw) dislike intensely, hate, detest, ex: He abhorred sexism in every form.
111 abide (uh-baide) in the sense of (people of North Korea.). obey, follow, be faithful, to endure.  ex: I said I would abide their decision, 
112 abjure (ab-juor) abjure is a more dramatic way to declare your rejection of something you once felt or believed. ex: you might abjure the field of astronomy after receiving the 113 fortune or you might abjure the marriage after a bitter divorce.
114 ablution (uh-bloo-tion) washing for personal hygiene or a ritual washing or cleaning associated with religious observance. ex: the women performed their ablution.
115 abscond leave hurriedly and secretly, typically to escape from custody or avoid arrest. ex: the barman absconded with a week's taking.
116 abstruse difficult to understand, ex: am abstruse enquiry 
117 abysmal (uh-biz-mal) extremely bad, ex: the quality of his work is abysmal.
118 appalling (uh-paw-ling) very bad, awful, ex: the cat suffered appalling injuries during attack
119 abyss a deep or seems no ending. ex: the rope led down into the dark abyss.
120 accede (ak-sied) agree to a demand, request or treaty, ex: the authority did not accede to the striker's demands. 
201 impoverishes (im-po-vi-ri-sh) make poor, ex: the wars had impoverish him.
202 congruence compatibility, harmony, ex: the results show quite good congruence with recent studies.
203 blight a thing that spoils or damages something. ex: the vacant properties are a blight on the neighbourhood
204 pompous self-important, supercilious, arrogant, haughty, ex: a pompous ass who pretends he knows evrything.
205 minnow a small or insignificant person or organization. ex: the paper is a minnow in the national newspaper mass.
206 contemporaries either happening at the same time or happening now. contemporaries are people and things from the same time period, contemporary music or contemporary furniture are new, not old. 
207 nuance (nyoo-ance) subtle difference in a shade of meaning, expression or sound. ex: he was familiar with the nuances of the local dialect.
208 invigorate (in-vi-ge-reit) give strength or energy to, revitalize, revive, rejuvenate ex: the shower had invigorated her.
209 vernacular the language or dialect spoken by the ordinary people in a particular country or region. ex: he wrote in the vernacular to reach a larger audience.
210 adhere stick fast to. believe in and follow the practices of. ex: paint won't adhere well to a greasy surface. ex: I do not adhere to any organized follow
211 futile/futility pointless, uselessness, incapable of producing any useful result, pointless. ex: a futile attempt to keep fans from mounting the stage. 
212 genuflect (jenu-flact) lower one's body briefly by bending one knee to the ground, typically in a worship or as sign of respect. ex: you should genuflect to the queen.
213 loco crazy ex: things got loco.
214 charismatic (ka-ris-mat-ic) exercising a compelling charm which inspires devotion in others. ex: He has a charismatic figure with great appeal to the public.
215 clan a group of people with a strong common interest. ex: New York garrulous clan of artist
216 amply (ampli) enough or more then enough, plentifully. ex: The persistent reader is amply rewarded.
217 rosier rosy. (especially of a person's skin) coloured like a pink or red rose, typically as an indication of health, youth or embarrassment. ex: the memory had the power to make her cheeks turn rosy.
218 poignant (poi-ni-ant) evoking a keen sense of sadness or regret. Poignancy of the movie may bring you to tears, Bring tissues, Lots of tissues.  ex: a poignant reminder of the passing of time
219 felony felony is a serious crime like murder, arson (arsonist), or burglary (buh-glu-ri). eX: He pleaded guilty to six felonies.
220 divulge (dai-vuhlj) disclose(private or sensitive information) ex: I do not want to divulge my plans at the moment.
221 emancipation liberation, the fact or process or being set free from legal social or political restrictions.  ex: the social and political emancipation of women
222 profuse (pruh-fyoos) very plentiful, abundant. ex: I offered my profuse apologies.
223 scarce (is-kaey-se) insufficient for the demand especially related to food, money or some other resource, ex: As raw materials became scarce, synthetics were developed.
224 sedentary (seh-duhn-tree) sedentary means sitting a lot and refers to a person or job that is not a very physically active. ex: scientists believe that one of the causes of the obesity epidemic sweeping the US is our sedentary lifestyle
225 embattled surrounded by enemy forces and for this people preparing for war. ex: the embattled northern province
226 kerfuffle (kier-fa-fle) a commotion or fuss, especially one cause by conflicting views, ex: there was a kerfuffle over the champianship
227 litigation the process of taking legal action. ex: the company wishes to avoid litigation
230 commotion a state of confused and noise disturbance. ex: she was distracted by the commotion across the street.
231 concordant in agreement, ex: the answers were roughly concordant,
232 fiscal related to money, revenue, taxes. fiscal-deficet means government expenditure is more then its earning. ex: monetary and fiscal policy,
233 ebullient (uh-buh-lee-ant) cheerful and full of energy. ex: she sounded ebullient and happy.
234 sprawling spreading out over a large area in an untidy or irregular way. ex: the sprawling suburbs. 
235 bungling (buhng-guh-ling)the action or fact of carrying out a task clumsily or incompetently. ex: he was heavily criticized for his bungling of the case. 
236 utopian modelled on or aiming for a state in which everything is perfect, ex: an utopian ideology.
237 quest a long or arduous search for something. ex: the quest for a reliable vaccine has intensified
238 deter discourage (someone) from doing something by instilling doubt or fear of the consequences. ex: only a health problem would deter him from seeking re-election.
239 lousy very poor or bad, ex: the service is usually lousy
240 imperative a vital importance, crucial. ex: immediate action was imperative.
241 leery cautious or suspicious. ex: a city leery of gang violence
242 albeit even though. ex: he was making progress, albeit rather slowly
243 bewildering confusing. ex: there is a bewildering array of holidays to choose from.
244 loathes hate; feel intense dislike or disgust for. ex: she loathed him on sight
245 insurgencies an active revolt against mainly govt. ex: rebels are waging an armed insurgeny to topple the monarchy
246 impediment a hinderance or obstruction in doing something. ex:a serious impediment to scientific progress.
301 misdemeanour (mis-demean-or) minor wrongdoing, a player can expect a suspension for his latest misdemeanour
302 liberation discharge from prisonment.
303 arduous difficult or tiring ex: an arduous journey
304 topple overbalance or caused to overbalance and fall. ex: she toppled over when I touched her.
401 hone/honing sharpen ex: he was carefully honing the curved blade 
402 jaunt (jaw-nt) a short excursion or journey made for pleasure. ex: her regular jaunts to Europe.
403 excursion syn:jaunt.. short journey or trip, especially one taken as a leisure activity ex: an excursion to london zoo. 
404 paradigm (para-dime) a typical example of something. ex: society's paradigm of the "ideal woman".
405 prominence a state of being important, famous, or noticeable. ex: she came to prominence as an artist in 1960
406 disillusionment a feeling of disappointment resulting from the discovery that something is not good as one believed it to be. ex: I have become very disillusioned with politics.
407 sceptics (skeptic) Someone who habitually doubts accepted beliefs.
408 akin having similar character or qualities. ex: my parents were akin, probable half cousions.
409 entrenched establish (an attitude, habit, or belief) so firmly that change is very difficult or unlikely. ex: Ageism is entrenched in our society.
410 refutes prove (a statement or theory or someone) to be wrong or false. ex: His voice challenging his audience to rise and refute him.
411 predicament (pri-di-ka-ment) a difficult, unpleasant or embarrassing situation, ex: the club's financial predicament.
412 quandary (qwuan-d(a)ri) dilemma. ex: kate was in a quandary
413 communism a theory or system of social organisation in which all the property owned by the community and each person distributed and receives according to their ability.
414 totalitarian (tow-ta-li-ta-ri-an) dictatorial, tyrannical. ex: a totalitarian regime.
415 excoriate/excoriation (iks-co-riate) syn: scrape damage or remove part of the surface of (the skin). the discharge is acrid and excoriates the skin of the nose.
416 rambling syn: garrulous lengthy and confused or inconsequential. a rambling six-hour speech.
417 denounce (di-nau-nce) publicly declare to be wrong or evil. ex: the Assembly denounced the use of violence.
418 despotism tyranny, dictatorship, totalitarianism. the exercise of absolute power, especially in a cruel and oppressive way. ex: the ideology of enlightened despotism.
419 perished die especially is a violent or sudden way. ex: the great part of his army perished of hunger and disease.
420 famines extreme scarcity of food, ex: drought resulted in famine throughout the region.
501 plunged jump or dive quickly and energetically. ex: joy stripped her clothes off and plunged into the sea.
502 untenability undefendable, not able to maintain or defend against attack or objection. ex: this argument is clearly untenable.
503 nascent just coming into existence and beginning to display signs of future potential. ex: the nascent economic recovery
504 ingenuous (in-je-nuous) innocent, childlike, ex: he eyed her with wide, ingenous eyes.
505 turpitude depraved or wicked behaviour or character. ex: acts of moral turpitude.
506 dilatory slow to act. ex: he had been dilatory in appointing a solicitor
507 exonerated absolve someone from blame for a fault or wrong doing. ex: an inquiry exonerated those involved.
508 grafts graft can mean bribery or corruption, its also a ways of transplanting skin. the skin that transplnted is called graft and process is called skin graft.
509 retort say something in answer to a remark, typically in a sharp, angry, or witty manner. ex: "‘No need to be rude,’ retorted Isabel"
510 Stringent strict, precise. ex: stringent guidelines on air pollution"
511 Exchequer (ex-cheker) a royal or national treasury. ex: an important source of revenue to the sultans's exchequer.
512 Viscera (vis-(e)ra)the internal organs in the main cavities of the body, especially those in the abdomen, e.g. the intestines.
513 Anarchy a state of disorder due to absence or non-recognition of authority or other controlling systems. ex: the countary is threatened with anarchy.
514 Aide (aid) an assistant to an important person. ex: a presidential aide.
515 Averted turn away (one's eyes or thought.) ex: she averted her eyes while we made stilted conversation.
516 Tribunal a body established to settle certain type of disputes. ex: a rent tribunal
517 Sans without. ex: a picture of Maughan sans specs
518 Amid surrounded by, in the middle of. ex: one should amid himselft/herself by good people.
519 Strife angry or bitter disagreement. ex: strife within the community.
520 Fritter waste time, money or energy on trifing matters. ex: I wish we hadn/t frittered the money away so easily.
521 Divisive if you say something that is intended to make people angry with each other, your words are divisive. ex: Even in our most divisive struggles, we find ways to work together.
522 Foster supprot, encourage the development of something desirable ex: the teacher task is to foster learning.
523 Bludgeon (bluh-jin) a thick stick with a heavy end, used as a weapon. ex: she was found bludgeoned to death in the basement.
524 Studiously with concentration, ex: she gets on with his work quietly and studiously.
525 Wriggle twist and turn movements, ex: the puppy wriggled in his arms,
526 Subterfuge (subtr-fuje) using of deception in order to achieve ones goal.
527 Disenchant cause(someone) to be disappointed. ex: the may have been disenchanted by the loss of his huge following.
528 Daunt shake, fear. ex: some people are daunted by technology. 
529 Babble talk rapidly and continuously in a foolish, excited, or incomprehensible way. ex: "they babbled on about their holiday"
530 Superfluous unnecessary, especially through being more than enough. ex: "the purchaser should avoid asking for superfluous information"
531 Deceit the action of deceiving someone by hiding truth. ex: a web of deceit.
532 concoct an elaborate story of mixtures or fabricated, ex: he story is an imporbable concoction.
533 Prevail prove more powerful or superior. ex: it is hard for logic to prevail over emotion.
534 Plummet fall or drop or decrease rapidly in value or amount, ex: auto sales plummet
535 Soar fly or rise high in the air, ex: the bird spread its wings and soared into the air,
536 Placard notice/poster/bill for public display. ex: they were placarding the town with posters.
537 Extradition handover a person accused or convicted of a crime.
538 Rebut (re-but) claim or prove the (evidence or an accusation) is false. ex: he had to rebut charges of acting dor the convenience of this political friends.
539 Blasphemy (blas-ph-mi) the action or offence of speaking sacrilegiously about god or sacred things, ex: he was detained on the charges of blasphemy,
540 Pedophilla pedophlilla is a disorder in which the adult or adolescent experience a primarty or exclusive sexual attraction to childern.
541 Annihilated (anai-li-ate) destroy completely. ex: a bomb of this kind can annihilated them completely. 
542 Headbutt an aggressive and forceful thrust with he top of the head into the face or body or another person. ex: he tries a headbutt, which I dodge,
543 Plaint (plent) an accusation or charge
545 Mire (mai-ya) soft mud or dirt, ex: the roads retained their winter mire.
546 Enshrined preserve(a right, tradition or idea) in a form that ensured it will be protected ann respecred. ex: the following rights should be enshrined in the treaty" 
547 Anomaly (anomli)something that deviates from what is standard normal or expected. ex: there are a number of anomalies in the present system,
548 Spurt move with a sudden burst of speed. ex: the car had spurted to the top of the ramp.
549 Clout (political clout on police) 2 meaning, 1. a heavy blow witht he hand or an hard object, ex: a clout round the ear 2. influence or power especially in politics or business, ex: I know she carried a lot of clout.
550 Muster assemble (troops), especially for inspection or in preparation for battle. ex: 17k men had been mustered on Haldon Hill.
551 Plethora (pleh-tho-ra) a large or excess amount of something, ex: the plethora or commitees and subcommittes
552 Myscticism supernaturals, 
553 Embodiment When you talk about embodiment, you're talking about giving a form to ideas that are usually not physical: like love, hate, fear, justice, etc. A gavel is the embodiment of justice; a wedding ring can be the embodiment of love. ex: a flag is the embodiment of a country
554 Superfluity surplus, excess. an unnecessarily or excessively large amount or number of something. ec: a superfluit of unoccupied time,
555 Architectonics the scientific study or architechture
556 Pre-eminently above all, ex.: the novel is pre-eminently a realistic genre.
557 Exquisitely extremely delicate matter, sensitive. 
558 Wrought (of metals) beaten out of shaped by hammering.
559 squandder waste (something, especially money or time) in a reckless and foolish manner. ex: the team squandered several good scoring chances.
560 absolve declare someone free from guilt, obligation or punishment. ex: she asked the bishop to absolve her sins
601 Diaspora people who have been spread or been dispersed from their homeland, ex: the Ukrainian diaspora flocked back to kiev.
602 Miniscule extremely small, tiny, ex: the miuscule fragment of DNA,
603 Promulgate announce something publicily.
604 Vandalism action involving deliberate distruction of or damage to public or private property. ex: an act of mindless vandalism.
605 Spur stimulate, encourage. her son's passion for computer games spurred her on to set up a software business.
606 Menace a person or thing that is like to cause harm, a threat or danger, ex: "a new initiative aimed at beating the menace of drugs"
607 Formidable inspiring fearor respect through being impressively large,intense or capable.......What do the national debt, your old gym teacher, and your mother-in-law have in common? They're all formidable — that is, they inspire fear and respect thanks to their size, or special ability, or unusual qualities.,,,,ex: a formadable opponenet.
608 Sift examine something thoroughlhy so as to isolate that which is most important. ex: untill we sift the evidence ourselves we can't comment objectivey.
609 Tortuous full or twist and turns. ex: the route is remote and tortuous.
000 Agitation a state of anxiety or nervous excitement. ex: she was winging her hands in agitation.
000 Straddlers sit or stand with one leg on either side of. ex: he turned the chair round and straddled it.
000 Limbo a state of neglect or oblivion. ex: these prosoners are in limbo. no one is responsible for their welfare.
000 Eschew deliberately avoid using, abstain from. ex: he appealed to the crowd to eschew violence.
000 Outmanoeuvre (out-menu-ver) evade (an opponent) by moving faster or with greater agility.
000 agility ability to move quickly and easily. ex: though he was without formal as dance or athele, his physical agility was inexhaustible.
000 Clergy in church, clergy is the entire class or religious officials, from priests to pastors to bishops and beyond. clergy come from latin word clerk. ex: "all marriages were to be solemnized by the clergy"
000 Choir (kwai-uh) an organized group of singers, especially one that takes part in church services or performs in public. ex: "a church choir"
000 Rhetoric oratory (speaking and writing), eloquence,  ex: he is using a common figure of rhetoric, hyperbole
000 Conciliation the action of stopping someone being angry; placation. ex: "he held his hands up in a gesture of conciliation" 
000 Concur agree. ex: police officer concured with the statement
000 Doldrum the state or period or stagnation or depression. ex: the market has been in doldrums for three years.
000 asphyxiate (ass-phyx-iate) kill(someone) by depriving them of air. ex: an authoritarian rule asphyxiating  a free wheeling global metropolis.
000 Metropolis a capital or chief city of a country or region. ex: he preferred the peaceful life of the countyside to the bustle of the metropolis
000 bustle move in an energetic and busy manner. ex: he preferred the peaceful life of the countyside to the bustle of the metropolis
000 Splurging (sp-la-rge) an act of spending money freely or ectravagantly. ex: the annual pre-christmas splurge
000 Strident (of a sound) loud and harsh. grating. ex: his voice had become increasingly strident. 
000 Receptive willing to consider or accept new suggestions and ideas. ex: a receptive audience.
000 Jubilant feeling or expressing great happiness and triumph. ex: "a large number of jubilant fans ran on to the pitch"
000 Dais a low platform for a lecturn or throne.
000 Ostensible (os-ten-sible) stated or appearing to be true but not necessarily so, superficial. ex: in an ostensible effort to showcase India's plurality of hindutva modi met group of Muslims, sikh
000 Trample tred on and crush, ex: the fence had been trampled down.
000 Collegium (kuh-lee-jee-uhm) a society ex: the Supreme court collegium of CJI Gogoi and Ramana
000 assert state a fact or belief confidently and forcefully. ex: asserting that the time has come.
000 Stranded return to ones country ex: Thomas Cook collapses, 6 lac tourists stranded
000 Repatriation the return of someone to their own country. Ex: Thomas Cook goes bankrupt. 6 lac holiday makers stranded and UKs biggest repatriation since WW2
000 Turmoil (ter-moil) ex: a state of great disturbance. ex: financial turmoil
000 Reign (rain) hold royal office, rule as monarch. ex: Queen Elizabeth reigns over the UK 
000 bête-noire (bet-nwa) a person or thing that one particulary dislikes, ex: great-uncle Edward was my father's bête noire
000 Rein restrain, keep under control. ex: frame norms to rein in misuse of social media
000 Crusade vigorous campaign for political, social, or religious change. ex: Greta Thunberg continues crusade against climate change.
000 Tutelage protection of or authority over someone or something; guardianship. ex: xx fought soviet troops in Af under CIA tutelage
000 Ad-lib (add lib) speak or perform in public without previously preparing one's words. Ex: Charles had to ad-lib because he'd forgotten his script"
000 Dismayed shock, surprise, concern ex: they were dismayed by the invites. (kashmiri student invited by Yogi.)
000 Prudent acting with or showing care and thought for the future. ex: Your desires and our dreams match perfectly Your technology and our talent can change the world. Your prudent methods and our pragmatic mind can write new stories in management," Modi said at an event or ganised by Bloomberg Philanthropies.
000 Pragmatic dealing things sensibly or more practically rather then theoritical consideration, ex: Your desires and our dreams match perfectly Your technology and our talent can change the world. Your prudent methods and our pragmatic mind can write new stories in management," Modi said at an event or ganised by Bloomberg Philanthropies.
000 Tepid slightly warm or lukewarm ex: the statement comes amid concern over an economic slowdown and tepid investment
000 Overhauled take apart in order to examine or repair. ex: ayushman bharat plan overhauled, 554 packages nixed
000 Nixed put an end to, cancel ex: ayushman bharat plan overhauled, 554 packages nixed
000 Flak
000 Scuttle deliberately cause (a scheme) to fail. Ex: china scuttle global efforts to impose sanctions against pakistan based terrorists like JeM.
000 Quashing reject as invalid, especially by legal procedure. Ex: SP leaders seek quashing of FIR against students union
000 Illicit forbidden by law, rules, or custom. Ex: illicit liquor worth ₹25L seized.
000 Rap striking hard on surface with words ex: NGT raps UP govt over potable water
000 Threadbare used so often that it is no longer affected. Ex: the reason for low GDP has been discussed threadbare in numerous articles.
000 Brazen bold and without shame ex: Khan's justification of terrorism was brazen and incendiary
000 Debilitating (De-bili-tating) (of a disease or condition) making someone very weak and infirm. Ex: debilitating humidity stifles Doha women's Marathon
000 infirm not physically or mentally strong, ex: those who were old or infirm
000 stifles make (someone) unable to breathe properly; suffocate ex: debilitating humidity stifles Doha women's Marathon
000 Cordoned prevent access to or from the area or building by surrounding it with police or other guards. ex: the city centre was cordoned off after fires were discovered in two stores
000 Rift break apart ex: messi denies Barcelona rifts
000 Shun avoid or reject ex: on Gandhi jayanti,DM asks women to shun ghoonghat
000 Sedition conduct or speech inciting people to rebel against the authority of a state or monarch.ex: Sefition charges on 50 celbs for writing to PM on mob lynching
000 Mob-Lynching when mob become out of cobtrol, massive mob. Ex Sefition charges on 50 celbs for writing to PM on mob lynching
000 Curtail reduce the extent of quantity. Ex: SC curtain repititive Ayodhya land dispute arguments by a day
000 Unwarrented not justified or authorized.ex: these statements are factually incorrect, biased and unwarrented.
000 Desist stop doing something. Ex: and desist from making such comments .
000 Defiance resistance, audacity, boldness. Ex: South African defiance (match)
exalted of a per
sages
elated
jeopardized
agglomerate
radical
entice
finicky
bucking
retrograde
reactionary
impunity
coveted
kaleidoscopic
laureates
endocrinologist
obscurantism
sporadic
nudged
proclivities
progeny
stifle
cajoled
shudders
contraptions
protagonist
elucidate
trait
Inquisitive
Contemplative
androgynous
reinsich
prudence
eminent
antagonistic
adversarial
proliferation
antagonistic
legion
penchant
canonisation
prolific
inexorable
pervasiveness
burgeoning
emperical 
prosaic
engulfs
intricate
consonance
tracts
meagre
cul-de-sac
stalwarts
lackadaisical
elusive
proliferation
dispirited
enigmatic
hitherto
cohort
whipsaw
septuagenarians
remnants
paraphernalia
peabody
foliage
twigs
bestow
shenanigans
fudged
obfuscated
evocative 
curiouser
rogue

